Adds procedures for configuring private storage endpoints with Azure (#69024)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/configuring-private-storage-endpoint-azure-vnet-subnet-iro-discovery.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/configuring-private-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-private-storage-endpoint-azure-vnet-subnet-iro-discovery_{context}"]

> = Setting up a private storage endpoint on Microsoft Azure by configuring the Image Registry Operator to discover VNet and subnet names

Reviewer: Maybe try to make the title of this procedure more parallel to the other one - start with "Configuring", write out Microsoft (or don't) both places, etc. That is, if they are two different options, instead of users doing both.

The following procedure shows you how to set up a private storage endpoint on Microsoft Azure by configuring the Image Registry Operator to discover VNet and subnet names.

.Prerequisites 

* You have configured the image registry to run on Azure.

> * Your network has been set up using the Installer Provisioned Infrastructure (IPI) installation method. 

Reviewer: I don't think we are supposed to use the "IPI" abbreviation in docs, so I'd remove that

+
For users with a custom network setup, see "Configuring a private storage endpoint on Azure with user-provided VNet and subnet names". 

.Procedure 

. Edit the Image Registry Operator `config` object and set `networkAccess.type` to `Internal`:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit configs.imageregistry/cluster
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ...
spec:
  [...]
   storage:
      azure:
        [...]
        networkAccess:
          type: Internal
# ...
----

> . Optional. Enter the following command to confirm that the Operator has completed provisioning. This might take a few minutes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optional: Enter the following command to confirm that the Operator has completed provisioning. This might take a few minutes. 
```

I won't point out any more instances of this, if you wouldn't mind checking throughout the rest of the PR

Author: Yep. There was only 2. Thanks!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/configuring-private-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-private-storage-endpoint-azure-vnet-subnet-iro-discovery"]
= Setting up a private storage endpoint on Microsoft Azure by configuring the Image Registry Operator to discover VNet and subnet names

The following procedure shows you how to set up a private storage endpoint on Microsoft Azure by configuring the Image Registry Operator to discover VNet and subnet names.

.Prerequisites 

> * You have configured an image registry to run on Azure.

Author: Fixed in x3 spots.

* Your network has been set up using the Installer Provisioned Infrastructure (IPI) installation method. 
+

> For users with VNet and subnet names, see "Configuring a private storage endpoint on Azure with user-provided VNet and subnet names". 

Author: fixed

.Procedure 

. Edit the Image Registry Operator `config` object and omit your VNet and subnet names:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit configs.imageregistry/cluster
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ...
spec:
  [...]
   storage:
      azure:
        [...]
        networkAccess:
          type: Internal
# ...
----

. Enter the following command to confirm that the Operator has completed provisioning. This might take a few minutes. 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get configs.imageregistry/cluster -o=jsonpath="{.spec.storage.azure.privateEndpointName}" -w
----

. Optional. If the registry is exposed by a route, and you are configuring your storage account to be private, you must disable redirect if you want pulls external to the cluster to continue to work. Enter the following command to disable redirect on the Image Operator configuration:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch configs.imageregistry cluster --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"disableRedirect": true}}'
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> When redirect is enabled,  pulling images from outside of the cluster is not expected to work.

Author: Fixed. I might end up changing to "does not work" after review.

====

.Verification

> Use the following verification steps to ensure that users within the same cluster can pull images from the registry.

Reviewer 2: Both verification steps (`Verification` and `Verification with redirect enabled`) expect the registry to have an exposed route. Having an exposed route is not (and should not be) a requirement for enabling private endpoints - it's confusing that the procedure doesn't require exposing a route but the verification does... We need to either change the verification steps so that it pulls an image from a pod within the cluster (which is what this sentence claims this verification steps do) or we explain that the verification expects the registry to be exposed via the default route, i.e `defaultRoute: true`.
I prefer the former.

Author: @flavianmissi Happy to make it the former, but not sure if I know what that entails. I'm taking a stab at it: 

```suggestion

. $ REGISTRY=$(oc get svc -n openshift-image-registry --template='{{ .spec.clusterIP }}')

. $ podman login --tls-verify=false -u unused -p $(oc whoami -t) ${REGISTRY}

. $ podman pull --tls-verify=false ${REGISTRY}/openshift/tools

```

Sorry & Thanks!

Reviewer 2: You have to run the command from within the cluster. In other words, your podman client needs to be inside the cluster network.
I'm not sure what's the best way to tell customers to do it, here are a couple of options:
* import an image via `oc image-import` then create an app with it (this will use the internal route by default)
* use `oc debug node/<node-name>` to login into a node, run the suggested chroot command in the prompt then pull an image using the **internal** registry route. 
What do you think? The node debug is the closest to what you're currently documenting.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/configuring-private-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-private-storage-endpoint-azure-vnet-subnet-iro-discovery"]
= Setting up a private storage endpoint on Microsoft Azure by configuring the Image Registry Operator to discover VNet and subnet names

The following procedure shows you how to set up a private storage endpoint on Microsoft Azure by configuring the Image Registry Operator to discover vNet and subnet names.

.Prerequisites 

* You have configured an image registry to run on Azure
* You have configured a route

.Procedure 

> . Edit the Image Registry Operator `config/instance` object and omit your VNet and subnet names:

Reviewer 2: Understood.
`config` object sounds good to me!

----

. Enter the following command to log in to your container registry:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ podman login --tls-verify=false -u unused -p $(oc whoami -t) ${REGISTRY}
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Login Succeeded!
----

. Enter the following command to verify that you can pull an image from the registry:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ podman pull --tls-verify=false ${REGISTRY}/openshift/tools
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Trying to pull ${REGISTRY}/openshift/tools...
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob 6b245f040973 done
Copying config 22667f5368 done
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
22667f53682a2920948d19c7133ab1c9c3f745805c14125859d20cede07f11f9
----

. Optional. If the registry is exposed by a route, whether the `defaultRoute` or otherwise, disable `redirect` on the Image Operator configuration by entering the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch configs.imageregistry cluster --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"disableRedirect": true}}'
----

.Verification with redirect enabled

[NOTE]
====
With redirect enabled, pulling images is not expected to work.

> ====

Reviewer 2: It's still showing up under verification for me: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/69024/files#diff-0f818e6fea9e26ad4b280500ab5cc11f0ecd726705362ea4538f25d082c1e468R102
Am I missing something? maybe you forgot to push?

> ====

Reviewer 2: You mean under procedure (instead of verification)? I think it's important to let customers know that if they expose a route to the registry and are configuring their storage account to be private that they will need to disable redirect if they want pulls external to the cluster to continue to work.

> ====

Reviewer 2: looks good!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/configuring-private-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-private-storage-endpoint-azure-vnet-subnet-iro-discovery"]
= Setting up a private storage endpoint on Microsoft Azure by configuring the Image Registry Operator to discover VNet and subnet names

The following procedure shows you how to set up a private storage endpoint on Microsoft Azure by configuring the Image Registry Operator to discover VNet and subnet names.

.Prerequisites 

* You have configured an image registry to run on Azure.
* Your network has been set up using the Installer Provisioned Infrastructure (IPI) installation method. 
+

> For users with VNet and subnet names, see "Configuring a private storage endpoint on Azure with user-provided VNet and subnet names". 

Reviewer 2: Nice!
Is there anyway `"Configuring a private storage endpoint on Azure with user-provided VNet and subnet names"` can be a link that points to that procedure?

Author: @flavianmissi Short answer is no. Longer answer: It's a docs limitation. We can't use cross references in modules because it'll break the build on Pantheon. I might be able to use a direct HTTP link, but we try not to do that generally. I'll have to check out guidelines. We generally rely on users using CTRL+F (not a great docs experience). Hoping this is resolved when we get the new toolchain.

Reviewer 2: Aha, thanks for the explanation!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/configuring-private-cluster.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configuring-private-storage-endpoint-azure-vnet-subnet-iro-discovery"]
= Setting up a private storage endpoint on Microsoft Azure by configuring the Image Registry Operator to discover VNet and subnet names

The following procedure shows you how to set up a private storage endpoint on Microsoft Azure by configuring the Image Registry Operator to discover VNet and subnet names.

.Prerequisites 

* You have configured the image registry to run on Azure.
* Your network has been set up using the Installer Provisioned Infrastructure (IPI) installation method. 
+
For users with a custom network setup, see "Configuring a private storage endpoint on Azure with user-provided VNet and subnet names". 

.Procedure 

> . Edit the Image Registry Operator `config` object and omit your VNet and subnet names:

Reviewer 2: nit: 
```suggestion
. Edit the Image Registry Operator `config` object and set `networkAccess.type` to `Internal`:
```

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit configs.imageregistry/cluster
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
# ...
spec:
  [...]
   storage:
      azure:
        [...]
        networkAccess:
          type: Internal
# ...
----

> . Enter the following command to confirm that the Operator has completed provisioning. This might take a few minutes. 

Reviewer 2: This step is optional on the other procedure - do we want to be consistent here?

----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000
----

. Enter debug mode by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc debug node/<node-name>
----

. Run the suggested `chroot` command. For example:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ chroot /host
----

. Enter the following command to log in to your container registry:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ podman login --tls-verify=false -u unused -p $(oc whoami -t) image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Login Succeeded!
----

. Enter the following command to verify that you can pull an image from the registry:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ podman pull --tls-verify=false image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/openshift/tools
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
Trying to pull image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/openshift/tools/openshift/tools...
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob 6b245f040973 done
Copying config 22667f5368 done
Writing manifest to image destination
Storing signatures
22667f53682a2920948d19c7133ab1c9c3f745805c14125859d20cede07f11f9
----

> .Verification with redirect enabled

Reviewer 2: Is this intended to run from within a node debug pod, like the previous verification step?

Reviewer 2: Since redirect enabled will not work from outside the cluster and these steps are showing the failure they should be from outside the cluster..
With that said, the other procedure doesn't have this extra verification right? I think we can probably get rid of it.

Author: Removed.

> . Wait for the pods to cycle back up. Enter the following command to check the status of the pods:

Reviewer 2: Why are the pods cycling back up?

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get pods -n openshift-image-registry -w
----

> . Enter the following command to remove the `/openshift/tools/openshift/tools` image:

Reviewer 2: this image looks strange, it should be `openshift/tools`... unless you renamed it?

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ podman rmi image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000/openshift/tools/openshift/tools

Reviewer 2: Here and below you are using the internal registry route so this step will only work from within the cluster. But _pulls from within the cluster with redirect enabled are expected to work._ 

For this verification steps to be correct, you will need the external registry route. I'm not sure we need these steps to be honest - we're already explaining the redirect thing quite extensively... I'll leave it for you to decide. If we want to keep it we do need to review it.
